# Molecular Dynamics Lab 1 - Lennard Jones Atom Array

In this lab, we will use our Lennard Jones potential to compute dynamic interactions of a 1D array of atoms. Some of this assignment will take place on MATLAB Grader and the remainder can be carried out in MATLAB on your computer. The Learner Templates are available in the GITHUB repository.

1.	Determine and code the Lennard Jones potential to calculate the energy and force for a vector of atoms at position r. Complete this problem on MATLAB Grader.
2.	Determine and code a function to calculate the total energy, forces, and other relevant parameters for a 1D array of atoms. Complete this problem on MATLAB Grader.
3.	Determine and code a function to initialize the position, velocity, and temperature for a 1D array of atoms. Complete this problem on MATLAB Grader.
4.	Determine and code a function to run NVE molecular dynamics, using the velocity Verlet algorithm, on a 1D array of atoms. Complete this problem on MATLAB Grader.
<!-- DO NOT DO THIS PROBLEM 5.	Determine and code a function to run NVT molecular dynamics, using the velocity Verlet algorithm, on a 1D array of atoms. Complete this problem on MATLAB Grader. -->
6.	Use the code developed for problems 1-5 to do the following. Place all the graphs and discussion in a single PDF file that you upload to Learning Suite. Use the following parameters: LJ parameters σ = 2.338 Angstroms and ε = 2.4096 eV, calculation that includes both first and second neighbors in chain, numNN=2, with a chain of 50 atoms.
    1.	For r* = the equilibrium distance from the MS lab 1, run the *NVE* molecular dynamics routine at three temperatures, T* = 100 K, 300 K and 500K, and plot temperature, chain length, and energy as a function of time over at least 10,000 steps. Discuss the evolution of each of these values and whether you think the system has reached equilibrium, if so, what is the minimum time required for an equilibration period before which you should NOT make measurements of any property. Comment on any other observations you make about the simulations.
    2.  For r* = 3.0 angstroms, run the *NVE* molecular dynamics routine at three temperatures, T* = 100 K, 300 K and 500K, and plot temperature, chain length, and energy as a function of time over at least 10,000 steps for each scenario. Discuss the evolution of each of these values and whether you think the system has reached equilibrium, if so, what is the minimum time required for an equilibration period before which you should NOT make measurements of any property. Comment on why these results for a larger r* are different from the previous problem. Also comment on any other observations you make about the simulations.
<!-- Do NOT DO THESE PROBLEMS
    3.  For r* = the equilibrium distance from the MS lab 1, run the *NVT* molecular dynamics routine at T* = 300 K and plot temperature, chain length, and energy as a function of time over at least 10,000 steps. Note: you may have to run several different NH damping parameter values, M, to find one that doesn't diverge. Discuss the evolution of each of these values and whether you think the system has reached equilibrium, whether there is any minimum time required for an equilibration period before which you should NOT make measurements of any property. How does the NH damping parameter, M, affect the rate of convergence to the desired temperature? 
    4.	For r* = just slightly larger than the equilibrium distance from the MS lab 1, run the *NVT* molecular dynamics routine at T* = 300 K and plot temperature, chain length, and energy as a function of time over at least 10,000 steps. Note: you may have to run several different NH damping parameter values, M, to find one that doesn't diverge. Discuss the evolution of each of these values and whether you think the system has reached equilibrium, whether there is any minimum time required for an equilibration period before which you should NOT make measurements of any property. How does the NH damping parameter, M, affect the rate of convergence to the desired temperature?
    5.  Short answer: Comment on the difference in observed responses between the NVE and NVT ensembles.
-->
